src/pages/features.md, before:

---
title: Features
subtitle: Animations, downloads, icons, image generation, and negative values
charts:
  negative-demo:
    type: stacked-column
    title: Quarterly Performance
    file: charts/quarterly-profit.csv
    legend:
      - Cost
      - Profit/Loss
---

## Animations

Charts support CSS-based animations with staggered reveals. Enable globally or per-chart.

### Global Enable

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  animate: true
});
```

### Per-Chart Override

```yaml
charts:
  # Disable for this chart
  static-chart:
    type: donut
    animate: false
    file: charts/data.csv

  # Enable for this chart (if global is false)
  animated-chart:
    type: stacked-bar
    animate: true
    file: charts/data.csv
```

### Scroll-Triggered Animations

For animations that trigger when scrolled into view, add an Intersection Observer that toggles the `.chart-animate` class:

```javascript
const observer = new IntersectionObserver((entries) => {
  entries.forEach(entry => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      entry.target.classList.add('chart-animate');
    }
  });
}, { threshold: 0.2 });

document.querySelectorAll('.chart').forEach(chart => {
  observer.observe(chart);
});
```

## Download Links

Let users download the source CSV data for any chart.

### Setup

Enable globally in plugin options:

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  downloadData: true,     // show download links
  dataPassthrough: true,  // copy CSV files to output
  dataPath: '/data/'      // URL path for files
});
```

This adds a download link below each chart that loads data from a file.

### Per-Chart Override

```yaml
charts:
  # Uses global setting
  revenue:
    type: stacked-bar
    file: charts/revenue.csv

  # Custom download label
  expenses:
    type: stacked-column
    file: charts/expenses.csv
    downloadData: "Download expense report"

  # Disable for this chart
  internal:
    type: donut
    file: charts/internal.csv
    downloadData: false
```

### Without Passthrough

If `dataPassthrough` is false, ensure CSV files are available at the expected URLs. The plugin generates links based on `dataPath` + `file`:

```
/data/charts/revenue.csv
```

## Negative Values

Stacked column, dot, and scatter charts support negative values. When present, a zero axis line appears automatically.

### Stacked Columns

Positive values stack upward from zero, negative values stack downward:

```csv
quarter,Cost,Profit
Q1,20,10
Q2,25,-10
Q3,15,25
Q4,30,-10
```

<div class="chart-example">

{% chart "negative-demo" %}

</div>

The chart calculates the range from maximum positive stack to minimum negative stack automatically.

### Dot Charts

Points position above or below the zero line:

```csv
month,Change
Jan,5
Feb,-3
Mar,8
Apr,-2
```

### Scatter Charts

Both X and Y axes can display negative values:

```yaml
charts:
  scatter:
    type: scatter
    x:
      min: -100
      max: 100
    y:
      min: -50
      max: 50
```

## Manual Scaling with Negatives

Set explicit ranges that include negative values:

```yaml
charts:
  performance:
    type: stacked-column
    y:
      min: -50
      max: 100
    file: charts/performance.csv
```

Or using global defaults:

```yaml
charts:
  performance:
    type: stacked-column
    min: -50
    max: 100
    file: charts/performance.csv
```

The zero line positions proportionally between min and max.

## Icon Support

Dot, line, and scatter charts can display Font Awesome icons instead of default circular dots. Icons inherit series colors automatically.

### Prerequisites

Include Font Awesome in your site:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/7.0.1/css/all.min.css">
```

### Single Icon for All Series

Use a string to apply the same icon to all data points:

```yaml
charts:
  stars:
    type: dot
    file: data.csv
    icons: "fa-solid fa-star"
```

### Per-Series Icons

Use an object to assign different icons to each series:

```yaml
charts:
  development:
    type: dot
    file: adoption.csv
    y:
      columns:
        prs: Pull Requests
        commits: Commits
    icons:
      prs: "fa-solid fa-code-merge"
      commits: "fa-solid fa-code-commit"
```

### Scatter Charts

For scatter charts, icons are keyed by series value:

```yaml
charts:
  metrics:
    type: scatter
    file: data.csv
    series:
      column: group
    icons:
      alpha: "fa-solid fa-circle"
      beta: "fa-solid fa-square"
```

Icons also appear in the legend, replacing the default colored dot marker.

## Image Generation

Generate PNG images of charts for use in RSS feeds, social sharing, or fallback content. Images are rendered using Puppeteer during the build process.

### Prerequisites

Install Puppeteer as a peer dependency:

```bash
npm install puppeteer
```

### Plugin Configuration

Enable image generation globally:

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  image: {
    enabled: true,
    outputDir: '/images/charts/',  // where images are saved
    width: 800,                    // default width in pixels
    height: 400,                   // default height in pixels
    scale: 2,                      // device scale (2 for retina)
    background: '#ffffff',         // background color
    skipDev: true                  // skip during --serve/--watch
  }
});
```

When enabled, charts automatically include `data-chart-image` and `data-chart-alt` attributes for use with the `chartToImage` filter.

### Per-Chart Configuration

Override global settings for individual charts:

```yaml
charts:
  hero-chart:
    type: stacked-column
    file: data.csv
    alt: "Quarterly revenue showing growth trend"
    image:
      enabled: true
      width: 1200
      height: 600
```

The `alt` option sets the chart's `aria-label` for accessibility. It's also used as image alt text when image generation is enabled. If not specified, the chart title or ID is used.

Some chart types (such as stacked bars and Sankey diagrams) may need larger `width` or `height` values to be fully visible in the generated image.

### Getting Image URLs

Use the `chartImageUrl` shortcode to get the root-relative URL of a chart's generated image:

```liquid
{% raw %}{% chartImageUrl "hero-chart" %}
<!-- outputs: /images/charts/hero-chart.png -->{% endraw %}
```

For absolute URLs (required for Open Graph), prepend your site URL:

```liquid
{% raw %}<meta property="og:image" content="{{ site.url }}{% chartImageUrl "hero-chart" %}">{% endraw %}
```

### RSS Feeds

Use the `chartToImage` filter to replace chart HTML with `<img>` tags in feed content:

```liquid
{% raw %}{{ post.content | chartToImage }}{% endraw %}
```

For absolute URLs in feeds, pass a base URL:

```liquid
{% raw %}{{ post.content | chartToImage: "https://example.com" }}{% endraw %}
```

This replaces any chart `<figure>` elements that have image data with simple `<img>` tags, which work in RSS readers that don't support complex HTML/CSS.

## Accessibility

Charts are rendered as `<figure>` elements with proper semantic structure:

- `<figcaption>` contains the title and subtitle
- Chart data is represented in HTML, not canvas
- Legend items are readable by screen readers

Use the `alt` option to add an accessible description to a chart:

```yaml
charts:
  sales:
    type: stacked-column
    file: sales.csv
    alt: "Quarterly sales showing 25% growth year over year"
```

This sets `aria-label` on the chart's `<figure>` element. If not specified, the chart title or ID is used as a fallback.

For additional accessibility, consider:

1. Providing a data table alternative for complex charts
2. Ensuring sufficient color contrast in custom palettes

Commit message:

Add beta badge and Vercel note to image generation docs

src/pages/features.md, after:

---
title: Features
subtitle: Animations, downloads, icons, image generation, and negative values
charts:
  negative-demo:
    type: stacked-column
    title: Quarterly Performance
    file: charts/quarterly-profit.csv
    legend:
      - Cost
      - Profit/Loss
---

## Animations

Charts support CSS-based animations with staggered reveals. Enable globally or per-chart.

### Global Enable

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  animate: true
});
```

### Per-Chart Override

```yaml
charts:
  # Disable for this chart
  static-chart:
    type: donut
    animate: false
    file: charts/data.csv

  # Enable for this chart (if global is false)
  animated-chart:
    type: stacked-bar
    animate: true
    file: charts/data.csv
```

### Scroll-Triggered Animations

For animations that trigger when scrolled into view, add an Intersection Observer that toggles the `.chart-animate` class:

```javascript
const observer = new IntersectionObserver((entries) => {
  entries.forEach(entry => {
    if (entry.isIntersecting) {
      entry.target.classList.add('chart-animate');
    }
  });
}, { threshold: 0.2 });

document.querySelectorAll('.chart').forEach(chart => {
  observer.observe(chart);
});
```

## Download Links

Let users download the source CSV data for any chart.

### Setup

Enable globally in plugin options:

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  downloadData: true,     // show download links
  dataPassthrough: true,  // copy CSV files to output
  dataPath: '/data/'      // URL path for files
});
```

This adds a download link below each chart that loads data from a file.

### Per-Chart Override

```yaml
charts:
  # Uses global setting
  revenue:
    type: stacked-bar
    file: charts/revenue.csv

  # Custom download label
  expenses:
    type: stacked-column
    file: charts/expenses.csv
    downloadData: "Download expense report"

  # Disable for this chart
  internal:
    type: donut
    file: charts/internal.csv
    downloadData: false
```

### Without Passthrough

If `dataPassthrough` is false, ensure CSV files are available at the expected URLs. The plugin generates links based on `dataPath` + `file`:

```
/data/charts/revenue.csv
```

## Negative Values

Stacked column, dot, and scatter charts support negative values. When present, a zero axis line appears automatically.

### Stacked Columns

Positive values stack upward from zero, negative values stack downward:

```csv
quarter,Cost,Profit
Q1,20,10
Q2,25,-10
Q3,15,25
Q4,30,-10
```

<div class="chart-example">

{% chart "negative-demo" %}

</div>

The chart calculates the range from maximum positive stack to minimum negative stack automatically.

### Dot Charts

Points position above or below the zero line:

```csv
month,Change
Jan,5
Feb,-3
Mar,8
Apr,-2
```

### Scatter Charts

Both X and Y axes can display negative values:

```yaml
charts:
  scatter:
    type: scatter
    x:
      min: -100
      max: 100
    y:
      min: -50
      max: 50
```

## Manual Scaling with Negatives

Set explicit ranges that include negative values:

```yaml
charts:
  performance:
    type: stacked-column
    y:
      min: -50
      max: 100
    file: charts/performance.csv
```

Or using global defaults:

```yaml
charts:
  performance:
    type: stacked-column
    min: -50
    max: 100
    file: charts/performance.csv
```

The zero line positions proportionally between min and max.

## Icon Support

Dot, line, and scatter charts can display Font Awesome icons instead of default circular dots. Icons inherit series colors automatically.

### Prerequisites

Include Font Awesome in your site:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/7.0.1/css/all.min.css">
```

### Single Icon for All Series

Use a string to apply the same icon to all data points:

```yaml
charts:
  stars:
    type: dot
    file: data.csv
    icons: "fa-solid fa-star"
```

### Per-Series Icons

Use an object to assign different icons to each series:

```yaml
charts:
  development:
    type: dot
    file: adoption.csv
    y:
      columns:
        prs: Pull Requests
        commits: Commits
    icons:
      prs: "fa-solid fa-code-merge"
      commits: "fa-solid fa-code-commit"
```

### Scatter Charts

For scatter charts, icons are keyed by series value:

```yaml
charts:
  metrics:
    type: scatter
    file: data.csv
    series:
      column: group
    icons:
      alpha: "fa-solid fa-circle"
      beta: "fa-solid fa-square"
```

Icons also appear in the legend, replacing the default colored dot marker.

## Image Generation <span class="badge">Beta</span>

Generate PNG images of charts for use in RSS feeds, social sharing, or fallback content. Images are rendered using Puppeteer during the build process.

**Note:** This feature requires v1.0.0-beta.1 or later.

### Prerequisites

Install Puppeteer as a peer dependency:

```bash
npm install puppeteer
```

### Plugin Configuration

Enable image generation globally:

```javascript
eleventyConfig.addPlugin(uncharted, {
  image: {
    enabled: true,
    outputDir: '/images/charts/',  // where images are saved
    width: 800,                    // default width in pixels
    height: 400,                   // default height in pixels
    scale: 2,                      // device scale (2 for retina)
    background: '#ffffff',         // background color
    skipDev: true                  // skip during --serve/--watch
  }
});
```

When enabled, charts automatically include `data-chart-image` and `data-chart-alt` attributes for use with the `chartToImage` filter.

### Per-Chart Configuration

Override global settings for individual charts:

```yaml
charts:
  hero-chart:
    type: stacked-column
    file: data.csv
    alt: "Quarterly revenue showing growth trend"
    image:
      enabled: true
      width: 1200
      height: 600
```

The `alt` option sets the chart's `aria-label` for accessibility. It's also used as image alt text when image generation is enabled. If not specified, the chart title or ID is used.

Some chart types (such as stacked bars and Sankey diagrams) may need larger `width` or `height` values to be fully visible in the generated image.

### Getting Image URLs

Use the `chartImageUrl` shortcode to get the root-relative URL of a chart's generated image:

```liquid
{% raw %}{% chartImageUrl "hero-chart" %}
<!-- outputs: /images/charts/hero-chart.png -->{% endraw %}
```

For absolute URLs (required for Open Graph), prepend your site URL:

```liquid
{% raw %}<meta property="og:image" content="{{ site.url }}{% chartImageUrl "hero-chart" %}">{% endraw %}
```

### RSS Feeds

Use the `chartToImage` filter to replace chart HTML with `<img>` tags in feed content:

```liquid
{% raw %}{{ post.content | chartToImage }}{% endraw %}
```

For absolute URLs in feeds, pass a base URL:

```liquid
{% raw %}{{ post.content | chartToImage: "https://example.com" }}{% endraw %}
```

This replaces any chart `<figure>` elements that have image data with simple `<img>` tags, which work in RSS readers that don't support complex HTML/CSS.

### Vercel Deployment

Puppeteer requires Chromium, which doesn't work in Vercel's build environment. To use image generation with Vercel, build your site in an environment where Puppeteer works (such as locally or in GitHub Actions) and deploy the output using the Vercel CLI.

## Accessibility

Charts are rendered as `<figure>` elements with proper semantic structure:

- `<figcaption>` contains the title and subtitle
- Chart data is represented in HTML, not canvas
- Legend items are readable by screen readers

Use the `alt` option to add an accessible description to a chart:

```yaml
charts:
  sales:
    type: stacked-column
    file: sales.csv
    alt: "Quarterly sales showing 25% growth year over year"
```

This sets `aria-label` on the chart's `<figure>` element. If not specified, the chart title or ID is used as a fallback.

For additional accessibility, consider:

1. Providing a data table alternative for complex charts
2. Ensuring sufficient color contrast in custom palettes
